# Network

## Module Overview

At the end of this module, you will :

* _Learn to create a network_
* _Learn to attach a network to a container_
* _Learn to share a network_

## Help

Docker is an open source and popular operating system-level virtualization (commonly known as “containerization”) technology that runs on Linux, MacOS and Windows. Docker makes it easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers.

Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. While bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure of the host machine, volumes are completely managed by Docker.

Docker provide an easy command to manage each object. The default format of the command is :

```bash
docker <object> <command> <arguments>
```

The Docker command line take some parameters :
* <object> : The Docker object to manage (container, image, secret, service, etc).
* <command> : A verb defining what to do on the object.
* <arguments> : Some arguments depending on the action.

The recommended approach is to explicitly defined the object that you want to manage. In the case of container management, the recommended command is : docker network <command>

### Exercise n°1

Get the Docker image management help information from the Docker command line.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```bash
docker network help
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="CLI Return" %}
```bash
Usage:	docker network COMMAND

Manage networks

Commands:
  connect     Connect a container to a network
  create      Create a network
  disconnect  Disconnect a container from a network
  inspect     Display detailed information on one or more networks
  ls          List networks
  prune       Remove all unused networks
  rm          Remove one or more networks

Run 'docker network COMMAND --help' for more information on a command.
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Get

The _get_ command list the object asked. It could be a single object or a list of multiple objects comma separated. This command is useful to get the status of each object. The output can be formatted to only display some information based on some json search or external tools like `tr`, `sort`, `uniq`.

The default output display some useful information about each services :

* Network Id : The unique identifier of the object
* Name : The Docker network name
* Driver : The Docker network driver (bridge, host or null)
* Scope :  The scope of the Docker network

#### Exercise n°1

List all existing Networks.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```bash
docker network ls
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="CLI Return" %}
```bash
NETWORK ID          NAME                DRIVER              SCOPE
b1c3e7c04e1f        bridge              bridge              local
f3b0e56f6e6d        host                host                local
1ba11209b5e9        lq_default          bridge              local
95490bd4af9b        none                null                local
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## External documentation

Those documentations can help you to go further in this topic :

* Docker official documentation on [network](https://docs.docker.com/network/)
* Docker official documentation on [docker network command](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/network/)
