# Volume

## Module Overview

At the end of this module, you will :

* _Learn to create a volume_
* _Learn to attach a volume_
* _Learn to share a volume_

## Help

Docker is an open source and popular operating system-level virtualization (commonly known as “containerization”) technology that runs on Linux, MacOS and Windows. Docker makes it easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers.

Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. While bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure of the host machine, volumes are completely managed by Docker.

Docker provide an easy command to manage each object. The default format of the command is :

```bash
docker <object> <command> <arguments>
```

The Docker command line take some parameters :
* <object> : The Docker object to manage (container, image, secret, service, etc).
* <command> : A verb defining what to do on the object.
* <arguments> : Some arguments depending on the action.

The recommended approach is to explicitly defined the object that you want to manage. In the case of container management, the recommended command is : docker volume <command>

### Exercise n°1

Get the Docker image management help information from the Docker command line.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```bash
docker volume help
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="CLI Return" %}
```bash
Usage:	docker volume COMMAND

Manage volumes

Commands:
  create      Create a volume
  inspect     Display detailed information on one or more volumes
  ls          List volumes
  prune       Remove all unused local volumes
  rm          Remove one or more volumes

Run 'docker volume COMMAND --help' for more information on a command.
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## Get

The _get_ command list the object asked. It could be a single object or a list of multiple objects comma separated. This command is useful to get the status of each object. The output can be formatted to only display some information based on some json search or external tools like `tr`, `sort`, `uniq`.

The default output display some useful information about each services :

* Driver : The Docker volume driver
* Volume Name :  The name of the object

#### Exercise n°1

List all existing Volumes.

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Command" %}
```bash
docker volume ls
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="CLI Return" %}
```bash
DRIVER              VOLUME NAME
local               13ed7133cfdf1fb0289692b8c9f4775960d1f16783b4aed46215dc655ec08126
local               21a8830e9ca97ab298bd0e3a35f1a53f3c20c54d42e16acecf1453ee8a398517
local               275926fdf1fb31d896517663c8439dd5cc84917637b40ef1d9f08fbd2164c910
local               724880a01889b0c2aee86ad21e5d9e490bf938553af8e1904500061c0bb23280
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## External documentation

Those documentations can help you to go further in this topic :

* Docker official documentation on [volume](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/)
* Docker official documentation on [docker volume command](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/volume/)
